PORTFOLIO.md, before:

# Savi's Portfolio Documentation

## Project Overview

This document outlines the development of a personal portfolio website built with Next.js 14. The portfolio showcases professional experience, skills, projects, and contact information.

## Portfolio Features

The portfolio includes:
- Personal introduction with greeting text
- About section with professional summary
- Work Experience section with chronological job history
- Skills section showcasing technical and soft skills
- Projects section highlighting notable achievements
- Contact section with social links

## Customizations Made

Throughout development, we made several customizations:

1. **User Interface**
   - Implemented a clean, modern UI with responsive design
   - Added blur fade animations for text and section transitions
   - Temporarily removed the education section (commented out in code for future restoration)

2. **Social Media Integration**
   - Updated social media links:
     - GitHub: https://github.com/saviii
     - LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/saviii/
     - Twitter: https://x.com/SaviPabla

3. **Text Content**
   - Updated the contact section text to: "Want to connect? Shoot me a message on Twitter or LinkedIn and I'll respond whenever I can."
   - Modified job title at Yahoo Finance from "Principal Product Manager" to "Senior Product Manager"
   - Added a personal tagline: "Embracing the unknown: A PM on a quest to build, learn, and discover the magic in tech and life (with a few dog walks along the way)."
   - Removed the professional description from the hero section to create a more personal introduction

4. **Technical Improvements**
   - Addressed component issues in the codebase
   - Fixed rendering issues with client components in Next.js 14

## Deployment to Vercel

The portfolio is deployed to Vercel at [https://savi-portfolio.vercel.app/](https://savi-portfolio.vercel.app/)

### Deployment Steps

1. **Create a Vercel account** (or sign in)
   - Visit [vercel.com](https://vercel.com)
   - Sign up/Sign in with your GitHub account for easiest integration

2. **Import your GitHub repository**
   - From the Vercel dashboard, click "Add New..."
   - Select "Project"
   - Choose "Import Git Repository"
   - Select "saviii/savi-portfolio" from your GitHub repos
   - If you don't see your repo, you might need to configure the Vercel GitHub integration

3. **Configure project settings**
   - Framework Preset: Next.js
   - Root Directory: ./
   - Build Command: Leave as default (typically `next build`)
   - Output Directory: Leave as default (typically `.next`)
   - Install Command: Use `npm install` (instead of pnpm)

4. **Environment Variables**
   - Add any required environment variables (none required for basic setup)

5. **Deploy**
   - Click "Deploy"
   - Vercel will build and deploy your portfolio

6. **Set Up Automatic Deployments**
   - Vercel automatically sets up continuous deployment from your GitHub repo
   - Any pushes to the main branch will trigger a new deployment

7. **Custom Domain (Optional)**
   - From your project dashboard on Vercel, go to "Domains"
   - Add your custom domain (e.g., savisingh.com)
   - Follow Vercel's instructions to set up DNS records with your domain provider

### Troubleshooting Deployment

If your deployment shows the default Next.js page instead of your portfolio:
1. Verify the correct repository is connected to Vercel
2. Check that your build settings are correct (particularly for Next.js 14)
3. Review the build logs for any errors
4. Ensure your `src/app/page.tsx` file is being correctly recognized

To view build logs:
1. Go to your project on the Vercel dashboard
2. Click on the latest deployment
3. Select "View Build Logs"

If needed, trigger a manual redeployment from the Vercel dashboard.

## Git Setup and Workflow

The portfolio was set up with Git version control and pushed to GitHub using the following steps:

```bash
# Initialize a new Git repository
git init

# Add GitHub repository as remote origin
git remote add origin git@github.com:saviii/savi-portfolio.git

# Add all files to Git tracking
git add .

# Create initial commit
git commit -m "Initial portfolio commit with updated social links and personal introduction"

# Push to GitHub and set up tracking
git push -u origin main
```

## Project Structure

The project follows a standard Next.js application structure:

- `src/app/`: Application pages and routes
- `src/components/`: Reusable UI components
- `src/data/`: Data files for resume and blog content
- `public/`: Static assets like images and icons

## Development Workflow

### Running the Development Server

To work on the portfolio locally, use:

```bash
# Start the development server
npm run dev
```

This will start the Next.js development server at http://localhost:3000.

### Making Changes

1. Modify the relevant files in the src directory
2. The development server will automatically recompile and refresh
3. Once changes are finalized, commit them to Git

### Git Workflow for Future Changes

```bash
# Check status of changed files
git status

# Add changed files to staging
git add .

# Create a commit with descriptive message
git commit -m "Description of changes made"

# Push changes to GitHub
git push
```

## Notes About pnpm

There appears to be a reference to pnpm in the project, but it's not installed in your environment. The development server shows warnings about pnpm not being found but still functions correctly using npm. You can either:

1. Continue using npm without any changes
2. Install pnpm globally if needed: `npm install -g pnpm`

## Next Steps and Future Improvements

Potential future enhancements:
- Implement blog functionality
- Restore and update the education section
- Add more interactive elements or animations
- Set up custom domain and SSL certificates
- Add analytics to track portfolio visitors

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues:
1. Check the console for error messages
2. Verify Node.js and npm versions are compatible with Next.js 14
3. Try clearing the Next.js cache: `rm -rf .next`
4. Reinstall dependencies: `npm install`

---

This documentation was created on June 2024 as a reference for future development.

Commit message:

Fix Vercel deployment by removing pnpm-lock.yaml and updating documentation

PORTFOLIO.md, after:

# Savi's Portfolio Documentation

## Project Overview

This document outlines the development of a personal portfolio website built with Next.js 14. The portfolio showcases professional experience, skills, projects, and contact information.

## Portfolio Features

The portfolio includes:
- Personal introduction with greeting text
- About section with professional summary
- Work Experience section with chronological job history
- Skills section showcasing technical and soft skills
- Projects section highlighting notable achievements
- Contact section with social links

## Customizations Made

Throughout development, we made several customizations:

1. **User Interface**
   - Implemented a clean, modern UI with responsive design
   - Added blur fade animations for text and section transitions
   - Temporarily removed the education section (commented out in code for future restoration)

2. **Social Media Integration**
   - Updated social media links:
     - GitHub: https://github.com/saviii
     - LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/saviii/
     - Twitter: https://x.com/SaviPabla

3. **Text Content**
   - Updated the contact section text to: "Want to connect? Shoot me a message on Twitter or LinkedIn and I'll respond whenever I can."
   - Modified job title at Yahoo Finance from "Principal Product Manager" to "Senior Product Manager"
   - Added a personal tagline: "Embracing the unknown: A PM on a quest to build, learn, and discover the magic in tech and life (with a few dog walks along the way)."
   - Removed the professional description from the hero section to create a more personal introduction

4. **Technical Improvements**
   - Addressed component issues in the codebase
   - Fixed rendering issues with client components in Next.js 14

## Deployment to Vercel

The portfolio is deployed to Vercel at [https://savi-portfolio.vercel.app/](https://savi-portfolio.vercel.app/)

### Deployment Steps

1. **Create a Vercel account** (or sign in)
   - Visit [vercel.com](https://vercel.com)
   - Sign up/Sign in with your GitHub account for easiest integration

2. **Import your GitHub repository**
   - From the Vercel dashboard, click "Add New..."
   - Select "Project"
   - Choose "Import Git Repository"
   - Select "saviii/savi-portfolio" from your GitHub repos
   - If you don't see your repo, you might need to configure the Vercel GitHub integration

3. **Configure project settings**
   - Framework Preset: Next.js
   - Root Directory: ./
   - Build Command: Leave as default (typically `next build`)
   - Output Directory: Leave as default (typically `.next`)
   - Install Command: Use `npm install` (instead of pnpm)
   - **Important**: In the Build & Development Settings, set Package Manager to "npm"

4. **Environment Variables**
   - Add any required environment variables (none required for basic setup)

5. **Deploy**
   - Click "Deploy"
   - Vercel will build and deploy your portfolio

6. **Set Up Automatic Deployments**
   - Vercel automatically sets up continuous deployment from your GitHub repo
   - Any pushes to the main branch will trigger a new deployment

7. **Custom Domain (Optional)**
   - From your project dashboard on Vercel, go to "Domains"
   - Add your custom domain (e.g., savisingh.com)
   - Follow Vercel's instructions to set up DNS records with your domain provider

### Troubleshooting Deployment

If your deployment shows the default Next.js page instead of your portfolio:
1. Verify the correct repository is connected to Vercel
2. Check that your build settings are correct (particularly for Next.js 14)
3. Review the build logs for any errors
4. Ensure your `src/app/page.tsx` file is being correctly recognized

If you encounter package manager errors:
1. Make sure the package manager in Vercel settings is set to "npm" (not "pnpm")
2. If using npm locally, avoid pushing pnpm-lock.yaml changes
3. Consider deleting pnpm-lock.yaml if it's causing consistent issues

To view build logs:
1. Go to your project on the Vercel dashboard
2. Click on the latest deployment
3. Select "View Build Logs"

If needed, trigger a manual redeployment from the Vercel dashboard.

## Git Setup and Workflow

The portfolio was set up with Git version control and pushed to GitHub using the following steps:

```bash
# Initialize a new Git repository
git init

# Add GitHub repository as remote origin
git remote add origin git@github.com:saviii/savi-portfolio.git

# Add all files to Git tracking
git add .

# Create initial commit
git commit -m "Initial portfolio commit with updated social links and personal introduction"

# Push to GitHub and set up tracking
git push -u origin main
```

## Project Structure

The project follows a standard Next.js application structure:

- `src/app/`: Application pages and routes
- `src/components/`: Reusable UI components
- `src/data/`: Data files for resume and blog content
- `public/`: Static assets like images and icons

## Development Workflow

### Running the Development Server

To work on the portfolio locally, use:

```bash
# Start the development server
npm run dev
```

This will start the Next.js development server at http://localhost:3000.

### Making Changes

1. Modify the relevant files in the src directory
2. The development server will automatically recompile and refresh
3. Once changes are finalized, commit them to Git

### Git Workflow for Future Changes

```bash
# Check status of changed files
git status

# Add changed files to staging
git add .

# Create a commit with descriptive message
git commit -m "Description of changes made"

# Push changes to GitHub
git push
```

## Notes About pnpm

There appears to be a reference to pnpm in the project, but it's not installed in your environment. The development server shows warnings about pnpm not being found but still functions correctly using npm. You can either:

1. Continue using npm without any changes
2. Install pnpm globally if needed: `npm install -g pnpm`

Note that if you're deploying to Vercel, make sure to set the package manager to "npm" in your project settings to avoid build errors related to pnpm.

## Next Steps and Future Improvements

Potential future enhancements:
- Implement blog functionality
- Restore and update the education section
- Add more interactive elements or animations
- Set up custom domain and SSL certificates
- Add analytics to track portfolio visitors

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues:
1. Check the console for error messages
2. Verify Node.js and npm versions are compatible with Next.js 14
3. Try clearing the Next.js cache: `rm -rf .next`
4. Reinstall dependencies: `npm install`

---

This documentation was created on June 2024 as a reference for future development.
